(Please write your Enrollment Number)

Enrollment No. $01701012022$

End-Term Examination
(CBCS)(SUBJECTIVE TYPE)(OffLine)
Course Name: B.Tech., Semester:6
(May, 2025)

 Subject Code: BCS 310
 Subject: Human Computer Interaction

 Time :3 Hours
 Maximum Marks :60

Note: Q1 is compulsory. Attempt one question each from the Units I, II, III & IV.

 Q1

 (2.5*8=20)

 a) Define "User Interface" and explain its significance in modern computing.

 b) Differentiate between Hover-Reveal Tools and Toggle-Reveal Tools.

 c) What are the challenges present in display based Systems.

 d) Explain the principle of "direct manipulation" in the context of graphical user interfaces.

 e) Discuss the importance of screen design in user interfaces.

 f) What are the common limitations of mobile and hand-held platforms in terms of user interface design?

 g) What is the role of colors and multimedia in enhancing user experience in UI design?

 h) How does human interaction speed influence user interface design and usability?

 UNIT I

 Q2
 Justify the statement with example: “The Response Time/Productivity Relation changes based on the task and user.”
 (10)

 Q3
 Describe the principles of user interface design for graphical user interfaces (GUIs). Explain the concept of direct manipulation and how it is used in modern graphical systems.
 (10)

 UNIT II

 Q4
 Explain the design process for user interfaces. Discuss the role of human interaction characteristics (such as cognitive factors and physical limitations) in shaping the design of user interfaces.
 (10)

 Q5
 Explain the following Elements of Mobile Design in detaila. Contextb. Messagec. Look and Feeld. Layoute. Color
 (10)

 UNIT III

 Q6
 Discuss the following characteristics in respect of web pagesa. Page sizeb. Page renderingc. Page layoutd. Page resolutione. User focus
 (10)

 Q7
 Discuss the importance of navigation schemes in user interface design. How do you select the appropriate window types and controls for an application? Provide examples.
 (10)

 UNIT IV

 Q8
 Explain the role of multimedia, icons, and colors in user interface design. How can these elements be utilized to enhance the user experience and engagement?
 (10)

 Q9
 Discuss the various Interacting devices used in user interfaces, such as keyboards, touchscreens, and voice-activated commands. How do these devices impact user interaction and usability?
 (10)